## Acute effects of inter-effort recovery hypoxia on physiological responses and training quality during sprint interval training and small-sided games in handball: a randomised crossover trial

This repository contains the scripts used to analyze data by generalized linear mixed models from a trial investigating the effects of inter-effort hypoxic training on sprint interval training (SIT) and small-sided games (SSG) in handball

---

## Project Structure and Code Description

> **IMPORTANT**: Before running any scripts, make sure to:
> - Change the root directory as needed
> - Install all required R packages

### `tested_models_SIT_JR.R`

- First script to be run.
- Used to test all models as described in `methods.pdf`.
- Intended to be run interactively in the R terminal to check models individually. 

###  `chosen_models_training_load.R` and `chosen_models_training_quality.R`

- Generates the selected models for the analysis.
- Stores all final models in the `models_list` objects.
- As models for training load had an extra fixed effect (training session), two different scripts were needed.

### `creating_and_exporting_models_training_load.R` and `creating_and_exporting_models_training_quality.R`

- Loads the models generated by `chosen_models_training_load.R` and `chosen_models_training_quality.R`
- Produces and exports a `.xlsx` file with the model outputs for further analysis and interpretation
- The files generated by this script are already available in this github repository

### `participants characteristics.R`

- Creates the baseline characteristics table for the participants.

### `participants characteristics.R`

- Creates the recorded actions with playerscore table.


### `figures.R`

- Produces and saves all figures used in the manuscript.
- Uses data generated by `creating_and_exporting_models_training_load.R`, `creating_and_exporting_models_training_quality.R`and raw participants' data.

---

## Notes

- All scripts assume the use a manually defined `root` variable.
- All outputs (tables, graphs, `.xlsx` files) are saved in designated folders inside the root path.

---
## Disclaimer

The file `methods.pdf` is provided **for consultation purposes only**.  
It must **not** be cited, reproduced, or used as part of the final manuscript.  
Its sole purpose is to assist in understanding and interpreting the analysis scripts in this repository.
The related article is currently under peer review. If accepted and published, the official reference will be available on ResearchGate, at the link below.
## Author

Germano Marcolino Putti  
GitHub: [germanomputti](https://github.com/germanomputti)
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8191-598X
Research gate: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Germano-Putti-2?ev=hdr_xprf
Email: germanomputti@gmail.com
Lattes: http://lattes.cnpq.br/9960140114038219
